#!/bin/bash
SMEDAN was established by the SMEDAN Act of 2003 to promote the development of the micro, small, and medium enterprises [MSME] sector of Nigeria's economy. Statistically, MSMEs constitute more than 75% of all enterprises in Nigeria. This is mainly due to the ease of setting up capital and human resources required to establish an MSME. The agency’s role is to address poverty, rooted out of a lack of access to income-earning opportunities and a lack of capacity to take advantage of the opportunities in the country(Umar, 2010). Its principal role is Employment generation, supply of potential entrepreneurs, ensuring sound competition, and mobilization of local resources. Initiating and articulating policy ideas for micro, small, and medium enterprises' growth and development, promoting and facilitating development programs, instruments, and support services to accelerate the development and modernizaincome-earningtion of MSME operation.

Among the issues raised to the setback of SMEDAN is land as collateral for a loan, access to credit, urban orientation or outlook, the poor state of infrastructure, weak access to production inputs (especially finance), corruption, low access to information, the low synergy between various tiers of government, inappropriate/crude technology, dearth of business information/databank, lack of basic business capacity (knowledge, skills & attitude). The major problem with their activities and that of other Nigerian government agencies tasked with SME development is that they are yet to come to terms with the fact that in the 21st century, factories are more in the mind than physical. SMEDAN still believes you need to provide ‘land’ before you qualify for a loan. I.e. people with skills or knowledge for creativity are sidelined. The prerequisites to for accessing the loan do not favour the common people, hence, it favoured the already rich. Furthermore, there was a lack of enabling infrastructure to enhance both small and medium-scale businesses. A combination of those negative factors including insincerity frustrated everything.
